animatedanatomy.com now i will talk
about the deep layers of the planter
side of the foot first muscle that I
will explain is the flexor digitorum
longus that's the muscle that goes here
and this is its stand oh okay now that's
not the muscle that I will talk about
now because I talked about this muscle
in previous lessons what I want to talk
about is here from its stand own we have
the Olympic cold muscles arising and
that's the origin of these lyrical
muscles the insertion of lumbrical
muscles is the plantar aponeurosis and
here actually on the lateral four digits
plantar side the function of lemarchal
muscle is to actually flex the proximal
valleys and to extend the distal
phalanges it is innovated also by the
blancher nerve just like the previous
three muscles that I explained now I
will remove these two muscles because I
want to explain some other muscles here
we have the flexor digiti minimi then we
have the flexor hallucis brevis then we
have the oblique head of the adductor
analysis and we have the transverse head
of the adductor Alexes the flexor
pollicis is obviously going to flex the
hallux the abductor is going to adapt it
and an flexor digiti minimi serves for
deflection of the v oh and the flexor
digiti minimi and the adductor halitosis
are innovated by the lateral plantar
nerve while the flexor hallucis is
innovated by the medial plantar nerve
now there are only two more groups of
muscles left that will explain and that
is the in terrassa t muscles we have
dorsal interossei muscles and we have
the planter in Taurasi muscles let's
start by explaining the dorsal
interossei muscles the dorsal interossei
muscles as you can see here
have origin for example in a fifth toe
on the fifth metatarsal bone but it
inserts here on the fourth finger same
goes here it originates on the fourth
metatarsal bone but it inserts on the
third challenge here okay what does this
produce is actually the challenge these
are pulled here laterally okay and here
from both sides it stays in place
that's why muscles are pulled apart from
each other okay and that's called the
abduction of toes now we have plantar in
Taurasi muscles that are slightly
different the plantar interossei muscles
arise from the same F tarsal bone where
they insert into Fallon G that's why mas
values here are pulled medially okay and
because of this the fingers or the toes
are pulled together that's called the
adduction of toes hello everyone I
developed animated anatomy that you can
purchase on animatedanatomy.com I put
them links down there in the description
or you can click on a link here in a
video if you're not going to purchase my
software then at least make sure you
leave a positive comment subscribe or
like my video